---
topic: "RL for PA"
year: 2021
author: "Wu, Mu-En; Syu, Jia-Hao; Lin, Jerry Chun-Wei; Ho, Jan-Ming"
title: "<span style=\"color: lightyellow;\">Portfolio management system in equity market neutral using reinforcement learning</span>"
journal: "Applied Intelligence"
doi: "10.1007/s10489-021-02262-0"
---

# Wu 2021

<strong>
Wu, Mu-En, Jia-Hao Syu, Jerry Chun-Wei Lin, and Jan-Ming Ho. "Portfolio Management System in Equity Market Neutral Using Reinforcement Learning." Applied Intelligence 51, no. 11 (November 1, 2021): 8119–31. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10489-021-02262-0.
</strong>


**RL Allocation Variant:** asset weight assignment

**Reward functions:** Return, Sharpe

**Performance metrics:** Return, Sharpe, MDD, Profit Factor

**Methodology:** Equity market neutral portfolio constructed by training one long and one short RL model.

**Features:** OHLC

**Network Architecture:** Two neural network architectures - a CNN and an RNN. The CNN uses convolutional layers, dense layers, and a softmax output layer. The RNN uses an LSTM layer followed by dense and softmax layers. Details like number of layers, neurons, etc are provided in Tables 1 and 2.    

**Algorithms:** No specifics. The CNN and RNN serving as the policy networks in the RL framework. The paper also proposes a novel reward function based on the Sharpe ratio.

**Train/Test Data:** The dataset consists of daily OHLC stock price data. The TW50 stock dataset from Aug 2015 - Jul 2017 is used for training, and Aug 2017 - Jul 2019 for testing.

**Evaluation Metrics:** Total return, Sharpe ratio, maximum drawdown, and profit factor are used to evaluate the performance.

**Results:** The proposed Sharpe ratio reward function outperforms the return-based reward, giving 39% higher returns and 13.7% lower drawdown. The CNN model outperforms RNN in returns and Sharpe ratio. The PMS outperforms benchmarks on TW50 and traditional stock datasets.

**Conclusions:** The PMS with CNN and novel Sharpe ratio reward is an effective portfolio management system with good profitability and low risk. It can support decision making for resource allocation in stock trading.

**Limitations:** Performance on the financial dataset was inferior to benchmarks.

**Future Work:** No concrete future work directions are suggested.


